# 1.2 容器概述

The interface `org.springframework.context.ApplicationContext` represents the Spring IoC container and is responsible for instantiating, configuring, and assembling the aforementioned beans. The container gets its instructions on what objects to instantiate, configure, and assemble by reading configuration metadata. The configuration metadata is represented in XML, Java annotations, or Java code. It allows you to express the objects that compose your application and the rich interdependencies between such objects.

Several implementations of the `ApplicationContext` interface are supplied out-of-the-box with Spring. In standalone applications it is common to create an instance of [`ClassPathXmlApplicationContext`](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/5.0.9.RELEASE/javadoc-api/org/springframework/context/support/ClassPathXmlApplicationContext.html) or [`FileSystemXmlApplicationContext`](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/5.0.9.RELEASE/javadoc-api/org/springframework/context/support/FileSystemXmlApplicationContext.html). While XML has been the traditional format for defining configuration metadata you can instruct the container to use Java annotations or code as the metadata format by providing a small amount of XML configuration to declaratively enable support for these additional metadata formats.

In most application scenarios, explicit user code is not required to instantiate one or more instances of a Spring IoC container. For example, in a web application scenario, a simple eight (or so) lines of boilerplate web descriptor XML in the `web.xml` file of the application will typically suffice (see [Convenient ApplicationContext instantiation for web applications](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/current/spring-framework-reference/core.html#context-create)). If you are using the[Spring Tool Suite](https://spring.io/tools/sts) Eclipse-powered development environment this boilerplate configuration can be easily created with few mouse clicks or keystrokes.

The following diagram is a high-level view of how Spring works. Your application classes are combined with configuration metadata so that after the `ApplicationContext` is created and initialized, you have a fully configured and executable system or application.